# 考研英语阅读单词

## alongside

**adv. used to say that people or things do something or exist together at the same time(in coexistence with) 与……共存**

The proposal is that it should sit **alongside** the existing city of culture title, which was held by Hull in 2017 and has been awarded to Coventry for 2021. (2020 Text 1)

## aspiration

**n. a strong desire to have or do sth 渴望；抱负；志向**

They transform the **aspirations** of the people who live there; they nudge the self-image of the city into a bolder and more optimistic light. (2020 Text 1)

## bid

**n. (used especially in newspapers 尤用于报章) an effort to do sth or to obtain sth 努力争取**

Britain's towns, it is true, are note prevented from applying, but they generally lack the resources to put together a **bid** to beat their bigger competitors. (2020 Text 1)

## booby

**n. a stupid person 笨蛋；傻瓜**

Some might see the proposal as a **booby** prize for the fact that Britain is no longer able to apply for the much more prestigious title of European capital of culture, a sought-after award bagged by Glasgow in 1990 and Liverpool in 2008. (2020 Text 1)

## booby prize

**phr. a prize that is given as a joke to the person who is last in a competition 末名奖/安慰奖（作为玩笑赠予比赛中的最后一名）**

Some might see the proposal as a **booby prize** for the fact that Britain is no longer able to apply for the much more prestigious title of European capital of culture, a sought-after award bagged by Glasgow in 1990 and Liverpool in 2008. (2020 Text 1)

## cure-all

**n. something that people believe can cure any problem or any disease 万灵药；灵丹妙药**

**SYN panacea**

It is also wise to recall that such titles are note a **cure-all**. (2020 Text 1)

## cynic

**n. a person who does not believe that sth good will happen or that sth is important 悲观者；怀疑者**

A **cynic** might speculate that the UK is on the verge of disappearing into an endless fever of self-celebration in its desperation to reinvent itself for the post-Brexit world: after town of culture, who knows what will follow - village of culture? Suburb of culture? Hamlet of culture? (2020 Text 1)

## desperation

**n. the state of being desperate 绝望；拼命；铤而走险**

A cynic might speculate that the UK is on the verge of disappearing into an endless fever of self-celebration in its **desperation** to reinvent itself for the post-Brexit world: after town of culture, who knows what will follow - village of culture? Suburb of culture? Hamlet of culture? (2020 Text 1)

## hamlet

**n. a very small village 小村庄**

A cynic might speculate that the UK is on the verge of disappearing into an endless fever of self-celebration in its desperation to reinvent itself for the post-Brexit world: after town of culture, who knows what will follow - village of culture? Suburb of culture? **Hamlet** of culture? (2020 Text 1)

## high-profile

**adj. receiving or involving a lot of attention and discussion on television, in newspapers, etc. 经常出境（或见报）的；高姿态的**

The really successful holders of such titles are those that do a great deal more than fill hotel bedrooms and bring in **high-profile** arts events and good press for a year. (2020 Text 1)

## high street

**phr. a street where the most important shops and businesses in a town are 繁华的商业街区**

A "town of culture" could be not just about the arts but about honouring a town's peculiarities - helping sustain its **high street**, supporting local facilities and above all celebrating its people. (2020 Text 1)

## honor

**v. (~ sb(with sth)) to do sth that show great respect for sb/sth 尊敬，敬重（某人）**

A "town of culture" could be not just about the arts but about **honouring** a town's peculiarities - helping sustain its high street, supporting local facilities and above all celebrating its people. (2020 Text 1)

## in a new/different/bad etc light

**phr. if someone or something is seen or shown in a particular light, people can see that particular part of their character. 从新的/不同的/坏的角度看**

**light 角度，维度**

They transform the aspirations of the people who live there; they nudge the self-image of the city **into a bolder and more optimistic light**. (2020 Text 1)

## institute

**v. to introduce a system, policy, etc. or start a process 建立，制定（体系、政策等）；开始；实行**

A group of Labour MPs(Labour Member of Parliament 工党议员), among them Yvette Cooper, are bringing in the new year with a call to **institute** a UK "town of culture" award. (2020 Text 1)

## on/to the verge of sth/doing sth

**濒于；接近于；行将（做某事）**

A cynic might speculate that the UK is **on the verge of** disappearing into an endless fever of self-celebration in its desperation to reinvent itself for the post-Brexit world: after town of culture, who knows what will follow - village of culture? Suburb of culture? Hamlet of culture? (2020 Text 1)

## press

**n. the type or amount of reports that newspapers write about sb/sth 报道；评论**

The really successful holders of such titles are those that do a great deal more than fill hotel bedrooms and bring in high-profile arts events and good **press** for a year. (2020 Text 1)

## proposal

**n. a formal suggestion or plan; the act of making a suggestion 提议；建议；动议**

The **proposal** is that it should sit alongside the existing city of culture title, which was held by Hull in 2017, and has been awarded to Coventry for 2021. (2020 Text 1)

## put together

**n. to form people or things into a group 组织，组装，汇集**

Britain's towns, it is true, are note prevented from applying, but they generally lack the resources to **put together** a bid to beat their bigger competitors. (2020 Text 1)

## reinvent

**v. | ~ sth / yourself ( as sth ) | to present yourself / sth in a new from or with a new image 以新形象示人；以新形式出现**

A cynic might speculate that the UK is on the verge of disappearing into an endless fever of self-celebration in its desperation to **reinvent** itself for the post-Brexit world: after town of culture, who knows what will follow - village of culture? Suburb of culture? Hamlet of culture? (2020 Text 1)

## sit

**v. to be in a particular position or condition 处于……（某位置/状况**

The proposal is that it should **sit** alongside the existing city of culture title, which was held by Hull in 2017 and has been awarded to Coventry for 2021. (2020 Text 1)

## sought-after

**adj. wanted by many people, because it  is of very good quality or difficult to get or to find 争相获得的；吃香的；广受欢迎的**

Some might see the proposal as a booby prize for the fact that Britain is no longer able to apply for the much more prestigious title of European capital of culture, a **sought-after** award bagged by Glasgow in 1990 and Liverpool in 2008. (2020 Text 1)

## speculate

**v. to form an opinion about sth without knowing all the details or facts 推测；猜测；推断**

A cynic might **speculate** that the UK is on the verge of disappearing into an endless fever of self-celebration in its desperation to reinvent itself for the post-Brexit world: after town of culture, who knows what will follow - village of culture? Suburb of culture? Hamlet of culture? (2020 Text 1)

## spell

**n. a short period of time during which sth lasts （持续的）一段时间**

A badly run "year of culture" washes in and washes out of a place like the tide, bringing prominence for a **spell** but leaving no lasting benefits to the community. (2020 Text 1)